docs/source/en/api/pipelines/kandinsky.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Kandinsky

## Overview

Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practices from [DALL-E 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) and [Latent Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/latent_diffusion), while introducing some new ideas.

It uses [CLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clip) for encoding images and text, and a diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach enhances the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.

The Kandinsky model is created by [Arseniy Shakhmatov](https://github.com/cene555), [Anton Razzhigaev](https://github.com/razzant), [Aleksandr Nikolich](https://github.com/AlexWortega), [Igor Pavlov](https://github.com/boomb0om), [Andrey Kuznetsov](https://github.com/kuznetsoffandrey) and [Denis Dimitrov](https://github.com/denndimitrov) and the original codebase can be found [here](https://github.com/ai-forever/Kandinsky-2)

## Available Pipelines:

| Pipeline | Tasks |
|---|---|
| [pipeline_kandinsky.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky.py) | *Text-to-Image Generation* |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* |

## Usage example

In the following, we will walk you through some examples of how to use the Kandinsky pipelines to create some visually aesthetic artwork.

### Text-to-Image Generation

For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] and [`KandinskyPipeline`].
The first step is to encode text prompts with CLIP and then diffuse the CLIP text embeddings to CLIP image embeddings,
as first proposed in [DALL-E 2](https://cdn.openai.com/papers/dall-e-2.pdf).
Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it comes up with.

```py
prompt = "A alien cheeseburger creature eating itself, claymation, cinematic, moody lighting"
```

First, let's instantiate the prior pipeline and the text-to-image pipeline. Both 
pipelines are diffusion models.


```py
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

pipe_prior = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

t2i_pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
t2i_pipe.to("cuda")
```

Now we pass the prompt through the prior to generate image embeddings. The prior
returns both the image embeddings corresponding to the prompt and negative/unconditional image 
embeddings corresponding to an empty string.

```py
image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, guidance_scale=1.0).to_tuple()
```

<Tip warning={true}>

The text-to-image pipeline expects both `image_embeds`, `negative_image_embeds` and the original 
`prompt` as the text-to-image pipeline uses another text encoder to better guide the second diffusion 
process of `t2i_pipe`.

By default, the prior returns unconditioned negative image embeddings corresponding to the negative prompt of `""`.
For better results, you can also pass a `negative_prompt` to the prior. This will increase the effective batch size
of the prior by a factor of 2.

```py
prompt = "A alien cheeseburger creature eating itself, claymation, cinematic, moody lighting"
negative_prompt = "low quality, bad quality"

image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, negative_prompt, guidance_scale=1.0).to_tuple()
```

</Tip>


Next, we can pass the embeddings as well as the prompt to the text-to-image pipeline. Remember that 
in case you are using a customized negative prompt, that you should pass this one also to the text-to-image pipelines
with `negative_prompt=negative_prompt`:

```py
image = t2i_pipe(
    prompt, image_embeds=image_embeds, negative_image_embeds=negative_image_embeds, height=768, width=768
).images[0]
image.save("cheeseburger_monster.png")
```

One cheeseburger monster coming up! Enjoy! 

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/cheeseburger.png)

The Kandinsky model works extremely well with creative prompts. Here is some of the amazing art that can be created using the exact same process but with different prompts.

```python
prompt = "bird eye view shot of a full body woman with cyan light orange magenta makeup, digital art, long braided hair her face separated by makeup in the style of yin Yang surrealism, symmetrical face, real image, contrasting tone, pastel gradient background"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/hair.png)

```python
prompt = "A car exploding into colorful dust"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/dusts.png)

```python
prompt = "editorial photography of an organic, almost liquid smoke style armchair"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/smokechair.png)

```python
prompt = "birds eye view of a quilted paper style alien planet landscape, vibrant colours, Cinematic lighting"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/alienplanet.png)


### Text Guided Image-to-Image Generation

The same Kandinsky model weights can be used for text-guided image-to-image translation. In this case, just make sure to load the weights using the [`KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline`] pipeline.

**Note**: You can also directly move the weights of the text-to-image pipelines to the image-to-image pipelines
without loading them twice by making use of the [`~DiffusionPipeline.components`] function as explained [here](#converting-between-different-pipelines).

Let's download an image.

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests
from io import BytesIO

# download image
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg"
response = requests.get(url)
original_image = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
original_image = original_image.resize((768, 512))
```

![img](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg)

```python
import torch
from diffusers import KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline

# create prior
pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

# create img2img pipeline
pipe = KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "A fantasy landscape, Cinematic lighting"
negative_prompt = "low quality, bad quality"

image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, negative_prompt).to_tuple()

out = pipe(
    prompt,
    image=original_image,
    image_embeds=image_embeds,
    negative_image_embeds=negative_image_embeds,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    strength=0.3,
)

out.images[0].save("fantasy_land.png")
```

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/img2img_fantasyland.png)


### Text Guided Inpainting Generation

You can use [`KandinskyInpaintPipeline`] to edit images. In this example, we will add a hat to the portrait of a cat.

```py
from diffusers import KandinskyInpaintPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import torch
import numpy as np

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

prompt = "a hat"
prior_output = pipe_prior(prompt)

pipe = KandinskyInpaintPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-inpaint", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

init_image = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

mask = np.ones((768, 768), dtype=np.float32)
# Let's mask out an area above the cat's head
mask[:250, 250:-250] = 0

out = pipe(
    prompt,
    image=init_image,
    mask_image=mask,
    **prior_output,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    num_inference_steps=150,
)

image = out.images[0]
image.save("cat_with_hat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/inpaint_cat_hat.png)

### Interpolate 

The [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] also comes with a cool utility function that will allow you to interpolate the latent space of different images and texts super easily. Here is an example of how you can create an Impressionist-style portrait for your pet based on "The Starry Night". 

Note that you can interpolate between texts and images - in the below example, we passed a text prompt "a cat" and two images to the `interplate` function, along with a `weights` variable containing the corresponding weights for each condition we interplate. 

```python
from diffusers import KandinskyPriorPipeline, KandinskyPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import PIL

import torch

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

img1 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

img2 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/starry_night.jpeg"
)

# add all the conditions we want to interpolate, can be either text or image
images_texts = ["a cat", img1, img2]

# specify the weights for each condition in images_texts
weights = [0.3, 0.3, 0.4]

# We can leave the prompt empty
prompt = ""
prior_out = pipe_prior.interpolate(images_texts, weights)

pipe = KandinskyPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

image = pipe(prompt, **prior_out, height=768, width=768).images[0]

image.save("starry_cat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/starry_cat.png)


## Optimization

Running Kandinsky in inference requires running both a first prior pipeline: [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`]
and a second image decoding pipeline which is one of [`KandinskyPipeline`], [`KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline`], or [`KandinskyInpaintPipeline`].

The bulk of the computation time will always be the second image decoding pipeline, so when looking 
into optimizing the model, one should look into the second image decoding pipeline.

When running with PyTorch < 2.0, we strongly recommend making use of [`xformers`](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers)
to speed-up the optimization. This can be done by simply running:

```py
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

t2i_pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
t2i_pipe.enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention()
```

When running on PyTorch >= 2.0, PyTorch's SDPA attention will automatically be used. For more information on 
PyTorch's SDPA, feel free to have a look at [this blog post](https://pytorch.org/blog/accelerated-diffusers-pt-20/).

To have explicit control , you can also manually set the pipeline to use PyTorch's 2.0 efficient attention:

```py
from diffusers.models.attention_processor import AttnAddedKVProcessor2_0

t2i_pipe.unet.set_attn_processor(AttnAddedKVProcessor2_0())
```

The slowest and most memory intense attention processor is the default `AttnAddedKVProcessor` processor.
We do **not** recommend using it except for testing purposes or cases where very high determistic behaviour is desired. 
You can set it with:

```py
from diffusers.models.attention_processor import AttnAddedKVProcessor

t2i_pipe.unet.set_attn_processor(AttnAddedKVProcessor())
```

With PyTorch >= 2.0, you can also use Kandinsky with `torch.compile` which depending 
on your hardware can signficantly speed-up your inference time once the model is compiled.
To use Kandinsksy with `torch.compile`, you can do:

```py
t2i_pipe.unet.to(memory_format=torch.channels_last)
t2i_pipe.unet = torch.compile(t2i_pipe.unet, mode="reduce-overhead", fullgraph=True)
```

After compilation you should see a very fast inference time. For more information,
feel free to have a look at [Our PyTorch 2.0 benchmark](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/torch2.0).





## KandinskyPriorPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPriorPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
	- interpolate
	
## KandinskyPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

## KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

## KandinskyInpaintPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyInpaintPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

Commit message:

Add ddpm kandinsky (#3783)
* update doc

---------

Co-authored-by: yiyixuxu <yixu310@gmail,com>

docs/source/en/api/pipelines/kandinsky.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Kandinsky

## Overview

Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practices from [DALL-E 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) and [Latent Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/latent_diffusion), while introducing some new ideas.

It uses [CLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clip) for encoding images and text, and a diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach enhances the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.

The Kandinsky model is created by [Arseniy Shakhmatov](https://github.com/cene555), [Anton Razzhigaev](https://github.com/razzant), [Aleksandr Nikolich](https://github.com/AlexWortega), [Igor Pavlov](https://github.com/boomb0om), [Andrey Kuznetsov](https://github.com/kuznetsoffandrey) and [Denis Dimitrov](https://github.com/denndimitrov) and the original codebase can be found [here](https://github.com/ai-forever/Kandinsky-2)

## Available Pipelines:

| Pipeline | Tasks |
|---|---|
| [pipeline_kandinsky.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky.py) | *Text-to-Image Generation* |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* |

## Usage example

In the following, we will walk you through some examples of how to use the Kandinsky pipelines to create some visually aesthetic artwork.

### Text-to-Image Generation

For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] and [`KandinskyPipeline`].
The first step is to encode text prompts with CLIP and then diffuse the CLIP text embeddings to CLIP image embeddings,
as first proposed in [DALL-E 2](https://cdn.openai.com/papers/dall-e-2.pdf).
Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it comes up with.

```py
prompt = "A alien cheeseburger creature eating itself, claymation, cinematic, moody lighting"
```

First, let's instantiate the prior pipeline and the text-to-image pipeline. Both 
pipelines are diffusion models.


```py
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

pipe_prior = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

t2i_pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
t2i_pipe.to("cuda")
```

<Tip warning={true}>

By default, the text-to-image pipeline use [`DDIMScheduler`], you can change the scheduler to [`DDPMScheduler`]

```py
scheduler = DDPMScheduler.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", subfolder="ddpm_scheduler")
t2i_pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", scheduler=scheduler, torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
t2i_pipe.to("cuda")
```

</Tip>

Now we pass the prompt through the prior to generate image embeddings. The prior
returns both the image embeddings corresponding to the prompt and negative/unconditional image 
embeddings corresponding to an empty string.

```py
image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, guidance_scale=1.0).to_tuple()
```

<Tip warning={true}>

The text-to-image pipeline expects both `image_embeds`, `negative_image_embeds` and the original 
`prompt` as the text-to-image pipeline uses another text encoder to better guide the second diffusion 
process of `t2i_pipe`.

By default, the prior returns unconditioned negative image embeddings corresponding to the negative prompt of `""`.
For better results, you can also pass a `negative_prompt` to the prior. This will increase the effective batch size
of the prior by a factor of 2.

```py
prompt = "A alien cheeseburger creature eating itself, claymation, cinematic, moody lighting"
negative_prompt = "low quality, bad quality"

image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, negative_prompt, guidance_scale=1.0).to_tuple()
```

</Tip>


Next, we can pass the embeddings as well as the prompt to the text-to-image pipeline. Remember that 
in case you are using a customized negative prompt, that you should pass this one also to the text-to-image pipelines
with `negative_prompt=negative_prompt`:

```py
image = t2i_pipe(
    prompt, image_embeds=image_embeds, negative_image_embeds=negative_image_embeds, height=768, width=768
).images[0]
image.save("cheeseburger_monster.png")
```

One cheeseburger monster coming up! Enjoy! 

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/cheeseburger.png)

The Kandinsky model works extremely well with creative prompts. Here is some of the amazing art that can be created using the exact same process but with different prompts.

```python
prompt = "bird eye view shot of a full body woman with cyan light orange magenta makeup, digital art, long braided hair her face separated by makeup in the style of yin Yang surrealism, symmetrical face, real image, contrasting tone, pastel gradient background"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/hair.png)

```python
prompt = "A car exploding into colorful dust"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/dusts.png)

```python
prompt = "editorial photography of an organic, almost liquid smoke style armchair"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/smokechair.png)

```python
prompt = "birds eye view of a quilted paper style alien planet landscape, vibrant colours, Cinematic lighting"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/alienplanet.png)


### Text Guided Image-to-Image Generation

The same Kandinsky model weights can be used for text-guided image-to-image translation. In this case, just make sure to load the weights using the [`KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline`] pipeline.

**Note**: You can also directly move the weights of the text-to-image pipelines to the image-to-image pipelines
without loading them twice by making use of the [`~DiffusionPipeline.components`] function as explained [here](#converting-between-different-pipelines).

Let's download an image.

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests
from io import BytesIO

# download image
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg"
response = requests.get(url)
original_image = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
original_image = original_image.resize((768, 512))
```

![img](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg)

```python
import torch
from diffusers import KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline

# create prior
pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

# create img2img pipeline
pipe = KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "A fantasy landscape, Cinematic lighting"
negative_prompt = "low quality, bad quality"

image_embeds, negative_image_embeds = pipe_prior(prompt, negative_prompt).to_tuple()

out = pipe(
    prompt,
    image=original_image,
    image_embeds=image_embeds,
    negative_image_embeds=negative_image_embeds,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    strength=0.3,
)

out.images[0].save("fantasy_land.png")
```

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/img2img_fantasyland.png)


### Text Guided Inpainting Generation

You can use [`KandinskyInpaintPipeline`] to edit images. In this example, we will add a hat to the portrait of a cat.

```py
from diffusers import KandinskyInpaintPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import torch
import numpy as np

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

prompt = "a hat"
prior_output = pipe_prior(prompt)

pipe = KandinskyInpaintPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-inpaint", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

init_image = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

mask = np.ones((768, 768), dtype=np.float32)
# Let's mask out an area above the cat's head
mask[:250, 250:-250] = 0

out = pipe(
    prompt,
    image=init_image,
    mask_image=mask,
    **prior_output,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    num_inference_steps=150,
)

image = out.images[0]
image.save("cat_with_hat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/inpaint_cat_hat.png)

### Interpolate 

The [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] also comes with a cool utility function that will allow you to interpolate the latent space of different images and texts super easily. Here is an example of how you can create an Impressionist-style portrait for your pet based on "The Starry Night". 

Note that you can interpolate between texts and images - in the below example, we passed a text prompt "a cat" and two images to the `interplate` function, along with a `weights` variable containing the corresponding weights for each condition we interplate. 

```python
from diffusers import KandinskyPriorPipeline, KandinskyPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import PIL

import torch

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16
)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

img1 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

img2 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/starry_night.jpeg"
)

# add all the conditions we want to interpolate, can be either text or image
images_texts = ["a cat", img1, img2]

# specify the weights for each condition in images_texts
weights = [0.3, 0.3, 0.4]

# We can leave the prompt empty
prompt = ""
prior_out = pipe_prior.interpolate(images_texts, weights)

pipe = KandinskyPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

image = pipe(prompt, **prior_out, height=768, width=768).images[0]

image.save("starry_cat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/starry_cat.png)


## Optimization

Running Kandinsky in inference requires running both a first prior pipeline: [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`]
and a second image decoding pipeline which is one of [`KandinskyPipeline`], [`KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline`], or [`KandinskyInpaintPipeline`].

The bulk of the computation time will always be the second image decoding pipeline, so when looking 
into optimizing the model, one should look into the second image decoding pipeline.

When running with PyTorch < 2.0, we strongly recommend making use of [`xformers`](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers)
to speed-up the optimization. This can be done by simply running:

```py
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

t2i_pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("kandinsky-community/kandinsky-2-1", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
t2i_pipe.enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention()
```

When running on PyTorch >= 2.0, PyTorch's SDPA attention will automatically be used. For more information on 
PyTorch's SDPA, feel free to have a look at [this blog post](https://pytorch.org/blog/accelerated-diffusers-pt-20/).

To have explicit control , you can also manually set the pipeline to use PyTorch's 2.0 efficient attention:

```py
from diffusers.models.attention_processor import AttnAddedKVProcessor2_0

t2i_pipe.unet.set_attn_processor(AttnAddedKVProcessor2_0())
```

The slowest and most memory intense attention processor is the default `AttnAddedKVProcessor` processor.
We do **not** recommend using it except for testing purposes or cases where very high determistic behaviour is desired. 
You can set it with:

```py
from diffusers.models.attention_processor import AttnAddedKVProcessor

t2i_pipe.unet.set_attn_processor(AttnAddedKVProcessor())
```

With PyTorch >= 2.0, you can also use Kandinsky with `torch.compile` which depending 
on your hardware can signficantly speed-up your inference time once the model is compiled.
To use Kandinsksy with `torch.compile`, you can do:

```py
t2i_pipe.unet.to(memory_format=torch.channels_last)
t2i_pipe.unet = torch.compile(t2i_pipe.unet, mode="reduce-overhead", fullgraph=True)
```

After compilation you should see a very fast inference time. For more information,
feel free to have a look at [Our PyTorch 2.0 benchmark](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/torch2.0).





## KandinskyPriorPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPriorPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
	- interpolate
	
## KandinskyPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

## KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

## KandinskyInpaintPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyInpaintPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
