docs/source/en/api/pipelines/overview.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Pipelines

Pipelines provide a simple way to run state-of-the-art diffusion models in inference.
Most diffusion systems consist of multiple independently-trained models and highly adaptable scheduler 
components - all of which are needed to have a functioning end-to-end diffusion system.

As an example, [Stable Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion) has three independently trained models:
- [Autoencoder](./api/models#vae)
- [Conditional Unet](./api/models#UNet2DConditionModel)
- [CLIP text encoder](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.27.1/en/model_doc/clip#transformers.CLIPTextModel)
- a scheduler component, [scheduler](./api/scheduler#pndm), 
- a [CLIPImageProcessor](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.27.1/en/model_doc/clip#transformers.CLIPImageProcessor),
- as well as a [safety checker](./stable_diffusion#safety_checker).
All of these components are necessary to run stable diffusion in inference even though they were trained 
or created independently from each other.

To that end, we strive to offer all open-sourced, state-of-the-art diffusion system under a unified API. 
More specifically, we strive to provide pipelines that
- 1. can load the officially published weights and yield 1-to-1 the same outputs as the original implementation according to the corresponding paper (*e.g.* [LDMTextToImagePipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion), uses the officially released weights of [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)),
- 2. have a simple user interface to run the model in inference (see the [Pipelines API](#pipelines-api) section), 
- 3. are easy to understand with code that is self-explanatory and can be read along-side the official paper (see [Pipelines summary](#pipelines-summary)),
- 4. can easily be contributed by the community (see the [Contribution](#contribution) section).

**Note** that pipelines do not (and should not) offer any training functionality. 
If you are looking for *official* training examples, please have a look at [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples).

## 🧨 Diffusers Summary

The following table summarizes all officially supported pipelines, their corresponding paper, and if 
available a colab notebook to directly try them out.


| Pipeline | Paper | Tasks | Colab
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./alt_diffusion) | [**AltDiffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | -
| [audio_diffusion](./audio_diffusion) | [**Audio Diffusion**](https://github.com/teticio/audio_diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [controlnet](./api/pipelines/controlnet) | [**ControlNet with Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/controlnet.ipynb)
| [cycle_diffusion](./cycle_diffusion) | [**Cycle Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./dance_diffusion) | [**Dance Diffusion**](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./ddpm) | [**Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./ddim) | [**Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [if](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [if_img2img](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [if_inpainting](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [kandinsky](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsky** | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [kandinsky_inpaint](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsky** | Image-to-Image Generation | 
| [kandinsky_img2img](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsksy** | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [latent_diffusion](./latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image | 
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./latent_diffusion_uncond) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [paint_by_example](./paint_by_example) | [**Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [pndm](./pndm) | [**Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_ve](./score_sde_ve) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_vp](./score_sde_vp) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [semantic_stable_diffusion](./semantic_stable_diffusion) | [**SEGA: Instructing Diffusion using Semantic Dimensions**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12247) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_text2img](./stable_diffusion/text2img) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/training_example.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_img2img](./stable_diffusion/img2img) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_inpaint](./stable_diffusion/inpaint) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_panorama](./stable_diffusion/panorama) | [**MultiDiffusion: Fusing Diffusion Paths for Controlled Image Generation**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.08113) | Text-Guided Panorama View Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix](./stable_diffusion/pix2pix) | [**InstructPix2Pix: Learning to Follow Image Editing Instructions**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09800) | Text-Based Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix_zero](./stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) | [**Zero-shot Image-to-Image Translation**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.03027) | Text-Based Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_attend_and_excite](./stable_diffusion/attend_and_excite) | [**Attend and Excite: Attention-Based Semantic Guidance for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13826) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_self_attention_guidance](./stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) | [**Self-Attention Guidance**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.00939) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_image_variation](./stable_diffusion/image_variation) | [**Stable Diffusion Image Variations**](https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/lambda-diffusers#stable-diffusion-image-variations) | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_latent_upscale](./stable_diffusion/latent_upscale) | [**Stable Diffusion Latent Upscaler**](https://twitter.com/StabilityAI/status/1590531958815064065) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Depth-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./stable_diffusion_safe) | [**Safe Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/ml-research/safe-latent-diffusion/blob/main/examples/Safe%20Latent%20Diffusion.ipynb)
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | **Stable unCLIP** | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | **Stable unCLIP** | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./stochastic_karras_ve) | [**Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [text_to_video_sd](./api/pipelines/text_to_video) | [**Modelscope's Text-to-video-synthesis Model in Open Domain**](https://modelscope.cn/models/damo/text-to-video-synthesis/summary) | Text-to-Video Generation |
| [unclip](./unclip) | [**Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation | 
| [vq_diffusion](./vq_diffusion) | [**Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [text_to_video_zero](./text_to_video_zero) | [**Text2Video-Zero: Text-to-Image Diffusion Models are Zero-Shot Video Generators**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.13439) | Text-to-Video Generation |


**Note**: Pipelines are simple examples of how to play around with the diffusion systems as described in the corresponding papers. 

However, most of them can be adapted to use different scheduler components or even different model components. Some pipeline examples are shown in the [Examples](#examples) below.

## Pipelines API

Diffusion models often consist of multiple independently-trained models or other previously existing components. 


Each model has been trained independently on a different task and the scheduler can easily be swapped out and replaced with a different one. 
During inference, we however want to be able to easily load all components and use them in inference - even if one component, *e.g.* CLIP's text encoder, originates from a different library, such as [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers). To that end, all pipelines provide the following functionality:

- [`from_pretrained` method](../diffusion_pipeline) that accepts a Hugging Face Hub repository id, *e.g.* [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) or a path to a local directory, *e.g.*
"./stable-diffusion". To correctly retrieve which models and components should be loaded, one has to provide a `model_index.json` file, *e.g.* [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5/model_index.json](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5/blob/main/model_index.json), which defines all components that should be
loaded into the pipelines. More specifically, for each model/component one needs to define the format `<name>: ["<library>", "<class name>"]`. `<name>` is the attribute name given to the loaded instance of `<class name>` which can be found in the library or pipeline folder called `"<library>"`.
- [`save_pretrained`](../diffusion_pipeline) that accepts a local path, *e.g.* `./stable-diffusion` under which all models/components of the pipeline will be saved. For each component/model a folder is created inside the local path that is named after the given attribute name, *e.g.* `./stable_diffusion/unet`. 
In addition, a `model_index.json` file is created at the root of the local path, *e.g.* `./stable_diffusion/model_index.json` so that the complete pipeline can again be instantiated 
from the local path.
- [`to`](../diffusion_pipeline) which accepts a `string` or `torch.device` to move all models that are of type `torch.nn.Module` to the passed device. The behavior is fully analogous to [PyTorch's `to` method](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Module.html#torch.nn.Module.to).
- [`__call__`] method to use the pipeline in inference. `__call__` defines inference logic of the pipeline and should ideally encompass all aspects of it, from pre-processing to forwarding tensors to the different models and schedulers, as well as post-processing. The API of the `__call__` method can strongly vary from pipeline to pipeline. *E.g.* a text-to-image pipeline, such as [`StableDiffusionPipeline`](./stable_diffusion) should accept among other things the text prompt to generate the image. A pure image generation pipeline, such as [DDPMPipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/ddpm) on the other hand can be run without providing any inputs. To better understand what inputs can be adapted for 
each pipeline, one should look directly into the respective pipeline.

**Note**: All pipelines have PyTorch's autograd disabled by decorating the `__call__` method with a [`torch.no_grad`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.no_grad.html) decorator because pipelines should
not be used for training. If you want to store the gradients during the forward pass, we recommend writing your own pipeline, see also our [community-examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community).

Commit message:

[Pipeline] Add new pipeline for ParaDiGMS -- parallel sampling of diffusion models (#3716)
* add paradigms parallel sampling pipeline

* linting

* ran make fix-copies

* add paradigms parallel sampling pipeline

* linting

* ran make fix-copies

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Sayak Paul <spsayakpaul@gmail.com>

* changes based on review

* add docs for paradigms

* update docs with paradigms abstract

* improve documentation, and add tests for ddim/ddpm batch_step_no_noise

* fix docs and run make fix-copies

* minor changes to docs.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Patrick von Platen <patrick.v.platen@gmail.com>

* move parallel scheduler to new classes for DDPMParallelScheduler and DDIMParallelScheduler

* remove changes for scheduling_ddim, adjust licenses, credits, and commented code

* fix tensor type that is breaking tests

---------

Co-authored-by: Sayak Paul <spsayakpaul@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Patrick von Platen <patrick.v.platen@gmail.com>

docs/source/en/api/pipelines/overview.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Pipelines

Pipelines provide a simple way to run state-of-the-art diffusion models in inference.
Most diffusion systems consist of multiple independently-trained models and highly adaptable scheduler 
components - all of which are needed to have a functioning end-to-end diffusion system.

As an example, [Stable Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion) has three independently trained models:
- [Autoencoder](./api/models#vae)
- [Conditional Unet](./api/models#UNet2DConditionModel)
- [CLIP text encoder](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.27.1/en/model_doc/clip#transformers.CLIPTextModel)
- a scheduler component, [scheduler](./api/scheduler#pndm), 
- a [CLIPImageProcessor](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.27.1/en/model_doc/clip#transformers.CLIPImageProcessor),
- as well as a [safety checker](./stable_diffusion#safety_checker).
All of these components are necessary to run stable diffusion in inference even though they were trained 
or created independently from each other.

To that end, we strive to offer all open-sourced, state-of-the-art diffusion system under a unified API. 
More specifically, we strive to provide pipelines that
- 1. can load the officially published weights and yield 1-to-1 the same outputs as the original implementation according to the corresponding paper (*e.g.* [LDMTextToImagePipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion), uses the officially released weights of [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)),
- 2. have a simple user interface to run the model in inference (see the [Pipelines API](#pipelines-api) section), 
- 3. are easy to understand with code that is self-explanatory and can be read along-side the official paper (see [Pipelines summary](#pipelines-summary)),
- 4. can easily be contributed by the community (see the [Contribution](#contribution) section).

**Note** that pipelines do not (and should not) offer any training functionality. 
If you are looking for *official* training examples, please have a look at [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples).

## 🧨 Diffusers Summary

The following table summarizes all officially supported pipelines, their corresponding paper, and if 
available a colab notebook to directly try them out.


| Pipeline | Paper | Tasks | Colab
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./alt_diffusion) | [**AltDiffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | -
| [audio_diffusion](./audio_diffusion) | [**Audio Diffusion**](https://github.com/teticio/audio_diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [controlnet](./api/pipelines/controlnet) | [**ControlNet with Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/controlnet.ipynb)
| [cycle_diffusion](./cycle_diffusion) | [**Cycle Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./dance_diffusion) | [**Dance Diffusion**](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./ddpm) | [**Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./ddim) | [**Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [if](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [if_img2img](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [if_inpainting](./if) | [**IF**](https://github.com/deep-floyd/IF) | Image-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/deepfloyd_if_free_tier_google_colab.ipynb)
| [kandinsky](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsky** | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [kandinsky_inpaint](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsky** | Image-to-Image Generation | 
| [kandinsky_img2img](./kandinsky) | **Kandinsksy** | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [latent_diffusion](./latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image | 
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./latent_diffusion_uncond) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [paint_by_example](./paint_by_example) | [**Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [paradigms](./paradigms) | [**Parallel Sampling of Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16317) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [pndm](./pndm) | [**Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_ve](./score_sde_ve) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_vp](./score_sde_vp) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [semantic_stable_diffusion](./semantic_stable_diffusion) | [**SEGA: Instructing Diffusion using Semantic Dimensions**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12247) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_text2img](./stable_diffusion/text2img) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/training_example.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_img2img](./stable_diffusion/img2img) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_inpaint](./stable_diffusion/inpaint) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_panorama](./stable_diffusion/panorama) | [**MultiDiffusion: Fusing Diffusion Paths for Controlled Image Generation**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.08113) | Text-Guided Panorama View Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix](./stable_diffusion/pix2pix) | [**InstructPix2Pix: Learning to Follow Image Editing Instructions**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09800) | Text-Based Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix_zero](./stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) | [**Zero-shot Image-to-Image Translation**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.03027) | Text-Based Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_attend_and_excite](./stable_diffusion/attend_and_excite) | [**Attend and Excite: Attention-Based Semantic Guidance for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13826) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_self_attention_guidance](./stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) | [**Self-Attention Guidance**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.00939) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_image_variation](./stable_diffusion/image_variation) | [**Stable Diffusion Image Variations**](https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/lambda-diffusers#stable-diffusion-image-variations) | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_latent_upscale](./stable_diffusion/latent_upscale) | [**Stable Diffusion Latent Upscaler**](https://twitter.com/StabilityAI/status/1590531958815064065) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Depth-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./stable_diffusion_safe) | [**Safe Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/ml-research/safe-latent-diffusion/blob/main/examples/Safe%20Latent%20Diffusion.ipynb)
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | **Stable unCLIP** | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | **Stable unCLIP** | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./stochastic_karras_ve) | [**Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [text_to_video_sd](./api/pipelines/text_to_video) | [**Modelscope's Text-to-video-synthesis Model in Open Domain**](https://modelscope.cn/models/damo/text-to-video-synthesis/summary) | Text-to-Video Generation |
| [unclip](./unclip) | [**Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./versatile_diffusion) | [**Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation | 
| [vq_diffusion](./vq_diffusion) | [**Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [text_to_video_zero](./text_to_video_zero) | [**Text2Video-Zero: Text-to-Image Diffusion Models are Zero-Shot Video Generators**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.13439) | Text-to-Video Generation |


**Note**: Pipelines are simple examples of how to play around with the diffusion systems as described in the corresponding papers. 

However, most of them can be adapted to use different scheduler components or even different model components. Some pipeline examples are shown in the [Examples](#examples) below.

## Pipelines API

Diffusion models often consist of multiple independently-trained models or other previously existing components. 


Each model has been trained independently on a different task and the scheduler can easily be swapped out and replaced with a different one. 
During inference, we however want to be able to easily load all components and use them in inference - even if one component, *e.g.* CLIP's text encoder, originates from a different library, such as [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers). To that end, all pipelines provide the following functionality:

- [`from_pretrained` method](../diffusion_pipeline) that accepts a Hugging Face Hub repository id, *e.g.* [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) or a path to a local directory, *e.g.*
"./stable-diffusion". To correctly retrieve which models and components should be loaded, one has to provide a `model_index.json` file, *e.g.* [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5/model_index.json](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5/blob/main/model_index.json), which defines all components that should be
loaded into the pipelines. More specifically, for each model/component one needs to define the format `<name>: ["<library>", "<class name>"]`. `<name>` is the attribute name given to the loaded instance of `<class name>` which can be found in the library or pipeline folder called `"<library>"`.
- [`save_pretrained`](../diffusion_pipeline) that accepts a local path, *e.g.* `./stable-diffusion` under which all models/components of the pipeline will be saved. For each component/model a folder is created inside the local path that is named after the given attribute name, *e.g.* `./stable_diffusion/unet`. 
In addition, a `model_index.json` file is created at the root of the local path, *e.g.* `./stable_diffusion/model_index.json` so that the complete pipeline can again be instantiated 
from the local path.
- [`to`](../diffusion_pipeline) which accepts a `string` or `torch.device` to move all models that are of type `torch.nn.Module` to the passed device. The behavior is fully analogous to [PyTorch's `to` method](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Module.html#torch.nn.Module.to).
- [`__call__`] method to use the pipeline in inference. `__call__` defines inference logic of the pipeline and should ideally encompass all aspects of it, from pre-processing to forwarding tensors to the different models and schedulers, as well as post-processing. The API of the `__call__` method can strongly vary from pipeline to pipeline. *E.g.* a text-to-image pipeline, such as [`StableDiffusionPipeline`](./stable_diffusion) should accept among other things the text prompt to generate the image. A pure image generation pipeline, such as [DDPMPipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/ddpm) on the other hand can be run without providing any inputs. To better understand what inputs can be adapted for 
each pipeline, one should look directly into the respective pipeline.

**Note**: All pipelines have PyTorch's autograd disabled by decorating the `__call__` method with a [`torch.no_grad`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.no_grad.html) decorator because pipelines should
not be used for training. If you want to store the gradients during the forward pass, we recommend writing your own pipeline, see also our [community-examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community).
