docs/source/en/using-diffusers/img2img.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text-guided image-to-image generation

[[open-in-colab]]

The [`StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline`] lets you pass a text prompt and an initial image to condition the generation of new images.

Before you begin, make sure you have all the necessary libraries installed:

```bash
!pip install diffusers transformers ftfy accelerate
```

Get started by creating a [`StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline`] with a pretrained Stable Diffusion model like [`nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion`](https://huggingface.co/nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion).

```python
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO
from diffusers import StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline

device = "cuda"
pipe = StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained("nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion", torch_dtype=torch.float16).to(
    device
)
```

Download and preprocess an initial image so you can pass it to the pipeline:

```python
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg"

response = requests.get(url)
init_image = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
init_image.thumbnail((768, 768))
init_image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/image_2_image_using_diffusers_cell_8_output_0.jpeg"/>
</div>

<Tip>

💡 `strength` is a value between 0.0 and 1.0 that controls the amount of noise added to the input image. Values that approach 1.0 allow for lots of variations but will also produce images that are not semantically consistent with the input.

</Tip>

Define the prompt (for this checkpoint finetuned on Ghibli-style art, you need to prefix the prompt with the `ghibli style` tokens) and run the pipeline:

```python
prompt = "ghibli style, a fantasy landscape with castles"
generator = torch.Generator(device=device).manual_seed(1024)
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, strength=0.75, guidance_scale=7.5, generator=generator).images[0]
image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/ghibli-castles.png"/>
</div>

You can also try experimenting with a different scheduler to see how that affects the output:

```python
from diffusers import LMSDiscreteScheduler

lms = LMSDiscreteScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe.scheduler = lms
generator = torch.Generator(device=device).manual_seed(1024)
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, strength=0.75, guidance_scale=7.5, generator=generator).images[0]
image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/lms-ghibli.png"/>
</div>

Check out the Spaces below, and try generating images with different values for `strength`. You'll notice that using lower values for `strength` produces images that are more similar to the original image.

Feel free to also switch the scheduler to the [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`] and see how that affects the output.

<iframe
	src="https://stevhliu-ghibli-img2img.hf.space"
	frameborder="0"
	width="850"
	height="500"
></iframe>

Commit message:

[docs] Fix Colab notebook cells (#3777)
fix colab notebook cells

docs/source/en/using-diffusers/img2img.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text-guided image-to-image generation

[[open-in-colab]]

The [`StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline`] lets you pass a text prompt and an initial image to condition the generation of new images.

Before you begin, make sure you have all the necessary libraries installed:

```py
# uncomment to install the necessary libraries in Colab
#!pip install diffusers transformers ftfy accelerate
```

Get started by creating a [`StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline`] with a pretrained Stable Diffusion model like [`nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion`](https://huggingface.co/nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion).

```python
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO
from diffusers import StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline

device = "cuda"
pipe = StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained("nitrosocke/Ghibli-Diffusion", torch_dtype=torch.float16).to(
    device
)
```

Download and preprocess an initial image so you can pass it to the pipeline:

```python
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion/main/assets/stable-samples/img2img/sketch-mountains-input.jpg"

response = requests.get(url)
init_image = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
init_image.thumbnail((768, 768))
init_image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/YiYiXu/test-doc-assets/resolve/main/image_2_image_using_diffusers_cell_8_output_0.jpeg"/>
</div>

<Tip>

💡 `strength` is a value between 0.0 and 1.0 that controls the amount of noise added to the input image. Values that approach 1.0 allow for lots of variations but will also produce images that are not semantically consistent with the input.

</Tip>

Define the prompt (for this checkpoint finetuned on Ghibli-style art, you need to prefix the prompt with the `ghibli style` tokens) and run the pipeline:

```python
prompt = "ghibli style, a fantasy landscape with castles"
generator = torch.Generator(device=device).manual_seed(1024)
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, strength=0.75, guidance_scale=7.5, generator=generator).images[0]
image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/ghibli-castles.png"/>
</div>

You can also try experimenting with a different scheduler to see how that affects the output:

```python
from diffusers import LMSDiscreteScheduler

lms = LMSDiscreteScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe.scheduler = lms
generator = torch.Generator(device=device).manual_seed(1024)
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, strength=0.75, guidance_scale=7.5, generator=generator).images[0]
image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/lms-ghibli.png"/>
</div>

Check out the Spaces below, and try generating images with different values for `strength`. You'll notice that using lower values for `strength` produces images that are more similar to the original image.

Feel free to also switch the scheduler to the [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`] and see how that affects the output.

<iframe
	src="https://stevhliu-ghibli-img2img.hf.space"
	frameborder="0"
	width="850"
	height="500"
></iframe>
