examples/controlnet/README.md, before:

# ControlNet training example

[Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) by Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala.

This example is based on the [training example in the original ControlNet repository](https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet/blob/main/docs/train.md). It trains a ControlNet to fill circles using a [small synthetic dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/fusing/fill50k).

## Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

**Important**

To make sure you can successfully run the latest versions of the example scripts, we highly recommend **installing from source** and keeping the install up to date as we update the example scripts frequently and install some example-specific requirements. To do this, execute the following steps in a new virtual environment:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install -e .
```

Then cd in the example folder and run
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

Or for a default accelerate configuration without answering questions about your environment

```bash
accelerate config default
```

Or if your environment doesn't support an interactive shell e.g. a notebook

```python
from accelerate.utils import write_basic_config
write_basic_config()
```

## Circle filling dataset

The original dataset is hosted in the [ControlNet repo](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel/ControlNet/blob/main/training/fill50k.zip). We re-uploaded it to be compatible with `datasets` [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/fusing/fill50k). Note that `datasets` handles dataloading within the training script.

Our training examples use [Stable Diffusion 1.5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) as the original set of ControlNet models were trained from it. However, ControlNet can be trained to augment any Stable Diffusion compatible model (such as [CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4)) or [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1).

## Training

Our training examples use two test conditioning images. They can be downloaded by running

```sh
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png

wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png
```


```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=4
```

This default configuration requires ~38GB VRAM.

By default, the training script logs outputs to tensorboard. Pass `--report_to wandb` to use weights and
biases.

Gradient accumulation with a smaller batch size can be used to reduce training requirements to ~20 GB VRAM.

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4
```

## Example results

#### After 300 steps with batch size 8

| |  | 
|-------------------|:-------------------------:|
| | red circle with blue background  | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png) | ![red circle with blue background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/red_circle_with_blue_background_300_steps.png) |
| | cyan circle with brown floral background | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png) | ![cyan circle with brown floral background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/cyan_circle_with_brown_floral_background_300_steps.png) |


#### After 6000 steps with batch size 8:

| |  | 
|-------------------|:-------------------------:|
| | red circle with blue background  | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png) | ![red circle with blue background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/red_circle_with_blue_background_6000_steps.png) |
| | cyan circle with brown floral background | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png) | ![cyan circle with brown floral background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/cyan_circle_with_brown_floral_background_6000_steps.png) |

## Training on a 16 GB GPU

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- bitsandbyte's 8-bit optimizer

[bitandbytes install instructions](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes#requirements--installation).

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --use_8bit_adam
```

## Training on a 12 GB GPU

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- bitsandbyte's 8-bit optimizer
- xformers
- set grads to none

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --use_8bit_adam \
 --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
 --set_grads_to_none
```

When using `enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention`, please make sure to install `xformers` by `pip install xformers`. 

## Training on an 8 GB GPU

We have not exhaustively tested DeepSpeed support for ControlNet. While the configuration does
save memory, we have not confirmed the configuration to train successfully. You will very likely
have to make changes to the config to have a successful training run.

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- xformers
- set grads to none
- DeepSpeed stage 2 with parameter and optimizer offloading
- fp16 mixed precision

[DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) can offload tensors from VRAM to either 
CPU or NVME. This requires significantly more RAM (about 25 GB).

Use `accelerate config` to enable DeepSpeed stage 2.

The relevant parts of the resulting accelerate config file are

```yaml
compute_environment: LOCAL_MACHINE
deepspeed_config:
  gradient_accumulation_steps: 4
  offload_optimizer_device: cpu
  offload_param_device: cpu
  zero3_init_flag: false
  zero_stage: 2
distributed_type: DEEPSPEED
```

See [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more DeepSpeed configuration options.

Changing the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's Adam
`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam` gives a substantial speedup but
it requires CUDA toolchain with the same version as pytorch. 8-bit optimizer
does not seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
 --set_grads_to_none \
 --mixed_precision fp16
```

## Performing inference with the trained ControlNet

The trained model can be run the same as the original ControlNet pipeline with the newly trained ControlNet.
Set `base_model_path` and `controlnet_path` to the values `--pretrained_model_name_or_path` and 
`--output_dir` were respectively set to in the training script.

```py
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline, ControlNetModel, UniPCMultistepScheduler
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import torch

base_model_path = "path to model"
controlnet_path = "path to controlnet"

controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained(controlnet_path, torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
    base_model_path, controlnet=controlnet, torch_dtype=torch.float16
)

# speed up diffusion process with faster scheduler and memory optimization
pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
# remove following line if xformers is not installed
pipe.enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention()

pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

control_image = load_image("./conditioning_image_1.png")
prompt = "pale golden rod circle with old lace background"

# generate image
generator = torch.manual_seed(0)
image = pipe(
     prompt, num_inference_steps=20, generator=generator, image=control_image
).images[0]

image.save("./output.png")
```

## Training with Flax/JAX

For faster training on TPUs and GPUs you can leverage the flax training example. Follow the instructions above to get the model and dataset before running the script.

### Running on Google Cloud TPU

See below for commands to set up a TPU VM(`--accelerator-type v4-8`). For more details about how to set up and use TPUs, refer to [Cloud docs for single VM setup](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/run-calculation-jax).

First create a single TPUv4-8 VM and connect to it:

```
ZONE=us-central2-b
TPU_TYPE=v4-8
VM_NAME=hg_flax

gcloud alpha compute tpus tpu-vm create $VM_NAME \
    --zone $ZONE \
    --accelerator-type $TPU_TYPE \
    --version  tpu-vm-v4-base

gcloud alpha compute tpus tpu-vm ssh $VM_NAME --zone $ZONE -- \
```

When connected install JAX `0.4.5`:

```
pip install "jax[tpu]==0.4.5" -f https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/libtpu_releases.html
```

To verify that JAX was correctly installed, you can run the following command:

```
import jax
jax.device_count()
```

This should display the number of TPU cores, which should be 4 on a TPUv4-8 VM.

Then install Diffusers and the library's training dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install .
```

Then cd in the example folder and run

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements_flax.txt
```

Now let's downloading two conditioning images that we will use to run validation during the training in order to track our progress

```
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png
```

We encourage you to store or share your model with the community. To use huggingface hub, please login to your Hugging Face account, or ([create one](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/training/hf.co/join) if you don’t have one already):

```
huggingface-cli login
```

Make sure you have the `MODEL_DIR`,`OUTPUT_DIR` and `HUB_MODEL_ID` environment variables set. The `OUTPUT_DIR` and `HUB_MODEL_ID` variables specify where to save the model to on the Hub:

```
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="control_out"
export HUB_MODEL_ID="fill-circle-controlnet"
```

And finally start the training

```
python3 train_controlnet_flax.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --validation_steps=1000 \
 --train_batch_size=2 \
 --revision="non-ema" \
 --from_pt \
 --report_to="wandb" \
 --max_train_steps=10000 \
 --push_to_hub \
 --hub_model_id=$HUB_MODEL_ID
 ```

Since we passed the `--push_to_hub` flag, it will automatically create a model repo under your huggingface account based on `$HUB_MODEL_ID`. By the end of training, the final checkpoint will be automatically stored on the hub. You can find an example model repo [here](https://huggingface.co/YiYiXu/fill-circle-controlnet).

Commit message:

[Examples] Add streaming support to the ControlNet training example in JAX (#2859)
* improve stable unclip doc.

* feat: add streaming support to controlnet flax training script.

* fix: CLI arg.

* fix: torch dataloader shuffle setting.

* fix: dataset length.

* fix: wandb config.

* fix: steps_per_epoch in the training loop.

* add: entry about streaming in the readme

* get column names from iterable dataset + fix final logging

---------

Co-authored-by: yiyixuxu <yixu310@gmail.com>

examples/controlnet/README.md, after:

# ControlNet training example

[Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) by Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala.

This example is based on the [training example in the original ControlNet repository](https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet/blob/main/docs/train.md). It trains a ControlNet to fill circles using a [small synthetic dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/fusing/fill50k).

## Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

**Important**

To make sure you can successfully run the latest versions of the example scripts, we highly recommend **installing from source** and keeping the install up to date as we update the example scripts frequently and install some example-specific requirements. To do this, execute the following steps in a new virtual environment:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install -e .
```

Then cd in the example folder and run
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

Or for a default accelerate configuration without answering questions about your environment

```bash
accelerate config default
```

Or if your environment doesn't support an interactive shell e.g. a notebook

```python
from accelerate.utils import write_basic_config
write_basic_config()
```

## Circle filling dataset

The original dataset is hosted in the [ControlNet repo](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel/ControlNet/blob/main/training/fill50k.zip). We re-uploaded it to be compatible with `datasets` [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/fusing/fill50k). Note that `datasets` handles dataloading within the training script.

Our training examples use [Stable Diffusion 1.5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) as the original set of ControlNet models were trained from it. However, ControlNet can be trained to augment any Stable Diffusion compatible model (such as [CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4)) or [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1).

## Training

Our training examples use two test conditioning images. They can be downloaded by running

```sh
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png

wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png
```


```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=4
```

This default configuration requires ~38GB VRAM.

By default, the training script logs outputs to tensorboard. Pass `--report_to wandb` to use weights and
biases.

Gradient accumulation with a smaller batch size can be used to reduce training requirements to ~20 GB VRAM.

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4
```

## Example results

#### After 300 steps with batch size 8

| |  | 
|-------------------|:-------------------------:|
| | red circle with blue background  | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png) | ![red circle with blue background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/red_circle_with_blue_background_300_steps.png) |
| | cyan circle with brown floral background | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png) | ![cyan circle with brown floral background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/cyan_circle_with_brown_floral_background_300_steps.png) |


#### After 6000 steps with batch size 8:

| |  | 
|-------------------|:-------------------------:|
| | red circle with blue background  | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png) | ![red circle with blue background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/red_circle_with_blue_background_6000_steps.png) |
| | cyan circle with brown floral background | 
![conditioning image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png) | ![cyan circle with brown floral background](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/cyan_circle_with_brown_floral_background_6000_steps.png) |

## Training on a 16 GB GPU

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- bitsandbyte's 8-bit optimizer

[bitandbytes install instructions](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes#requirements--installation).

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --use_8bit_adam
```

## Training on a 12 GB GPU

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- bitsandbyte's 8-bit optimizer
- xformers
- set grads to none

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --use_8bit_adam \
 --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
 --set_grads_to_none
```

When using `enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention`, please make sure to install `xformers` by `pip install xformers`. 

## Training on an 8 GB GPU

We have not exhaustively tested DeepSpeed support for ControlNet. While the configuration does
save memory, we have not confirmed the configuration to train successfully. You will very likely
have to make changes to the config to have a successful training run.

Optimizations:
- Gradient checkpointing
- xformers
- set grads to none
- DeepSpeed stage 2 with parameter and optimizer offloading
- fp16 mixed precision

[DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) can offload tensors from VRAM to either 
CPU or NVME. This requires significantly more RAM (about 25 GB).

Use `accelerate config` to enable DeepSpeed stage 2.

The relevant parts of the resulting accelerate config file are

```yaml
compute_environment: LOCAL_MACHINE
deepspeed_config:
  gradient_accumulation_steps: 4
  offload_optimizer_device: cpu
  offload_param_device: cpu
  zero3_init_flag: false
  zero_stage: 2
distributed_type: DEEPSPEED
```

See [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more DeepSpeed configuration options.

Changing the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's Adam
`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam` gives a substantial speedup but
it requires CUDA toolchain with the same version as pytorch. 8-bit optimizer
does not seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path to save model"

accelerate launch train_controlnet.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --train_batch_size=1 \
 --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
 --gradient_checkpointing \
 --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
 --set_grads_to_none \
 --mixed_precision fp16
```

## Performing inference with the trained ControlNet

The trained model can be run the same as the original ControlNet pipeline with the newly trained ControlNet.
Set `base_model_path` and `controlnet_path` to the values `--pretrained_model_name_or_path` and 
`--output_dir` were respectively set to in the training script.

```py
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline, ControlNetModel, UniPCMultistepScheduler
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import torch

base_model_path = "path to model"
controlnet_path = "path to controlnet"

controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained(controlnet_path, torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
    base_model_path, controlnet=controlnet, torch_dtype=torch.float16
)

# speed up diffusion process with faster scheduler and memory optimization
pipe.scheduler = UniPCMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
# remove following line if xformers is not installed
pipe.enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention()

pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()

control_image = load_image("./conditioning_image_1.png")
prompt = "pale golden rod circle with old lace background"

# generate image
generator = torch.manual_seed(0)
image = pipe(
     prompt, num_inference_steps=20, generator=generator, image=control_image
).images[0]

image.save("./output.png")
```

## Training with Flax/JAX

For faster training on TPUs and GPUs you can leverage the flax training example. Follow the instructions above to get the model and dataset before running the script.

### Running on Google Cloud TPU

See below for commands to set up a TPU VM(`--accelerator-type v4-8`). For more details about how to set up and use TPUs, refer to [Cloud docs for single VM setup](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/run-calculation-jax).

First create a single TPUv4-8 VM and connect to it:

```
ZONE=us-central2-b
TPU_TYPE=v4-8
VM_NAME=hg_flax

gcloud alpha compute tpus tpu-vm create $VM_NAME \
    --zone $ZONE \
    --accelerator-type $TPU_TYPE \
    --version  tpu-vm-v4-base

gcloud alpha compute tpus tpu-vm ssh $VM_NAME --zone $ZONE -- \
```

When connected install JAX `0.4.5`:

```
pip install "jax[tpu]==0.4.5" -f https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/libtpu_releases.html
```

To verify that JAX was correctly installed, you can run the following command:

```
import jax
jax.device_count()
```

This should display the number of TPU cores, which should be 4 on a TPUv4-8 VM.

Then install Diffusers and the library's training dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install .
```

Then cd in the example folder and run

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements_flax.txt
```

Now let's downloading two conditioning images that we will use to run validation during the training in order to track our progress

```
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_1.png
wget https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/controlnet_training/conditioning_image_2.png
```

We encourage you to store or share your model with the community. To use huggingface hub, please login to your Hugging Face account, or ([create one](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/training/hf.co/join) if you don’t have one already):

```
huggingface-cli login
```

Make sure you have the `MODEL_DIR`,`OUTPUT_DIR` and `HUB_MODEL_ID` environment variables set. The `OUTPUT_DIR` and `HUB_MODEL_ID` variables specify where to save the model to on the Hub:

```bash
export MODEL_DIR="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export OUTPUT_DIR="control_out"
export HUB_MODEL_ID="fill-circle-controlnet"
```

And finally start the training

```bash
python3 train_controlnet_flax.py \
 --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
 --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
 --dataset_name=fusing/fill50k \
 --resolution=512 \
 --learning_rate=1e-5 \
 --validation_image "./conditioning_image_1.png" "./conditioning_image_2.png" \
 --validation_prompt "red circle with blue background" "cyan circle with brown floral background" \
 --validation_steps=1000 \
 --train_batch_size=2 \
 --revision="non-ema" \
 --from_pt \
 --report_to="wandb" \
 --max_train_steps=10000 \
 --push_to_hub \
 --hub_model_id=$HUB_MODEL_ID
 ```

Since we passed the `--push_to_hub` flag, it will automatically create a model repo under your huggingface account based on `$HUB_MODEL_ID`. By the end of training, the final checkpoint will be automatically stored on the hub. You can find an example model repo [here](https://huggingface.co/YiYiXu/fill-circle-controlnet).

Our training script also provides limited support for streaming large datasets from the Hugging Face Hub. In order to enable streaming, one must also set `--max_train_samples`.  Here is an example command:

```bash
python3 train_controlnet_flax.py \
	--pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_DIR \
	--output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
	--dataset_name=multimodalart/facesyntheticsspigacaptioned \
	--streaming \
	--conditioning_image_column=spiga_seg \
	--image_column=image \
	--caption_column=image_caption \
	--resolution=512 \
	--max_train_samples 50 \
	--max_train_steps 5 \
	--learning_rate=1e-5 \
	--validation_steps=2 \
	--train_batch_size=1 \
	--revision="flax" \
	--report_to="wandb"
```

Note, however, that the performance of the TPUs might get bottlenecked as streaming with `datasets` is not optimized for images. For ensuring maximum throughput, we encourage you to explore the following options:

* [Webdataset](https://webdataset.github.io/webdataset/)
* [TorchData](https://github.com/pytorch/data)
* [TensorFlow Datasets](https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/tfless_tfds)
