docs/source/en/training/dreambooth.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# DreamBooth

[[open-in-colab]]

[DreamBooth](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) is a method to personalize text-to-image models like Stable Diffusion given just a few (3-5) images of a subject. It allows the model to generate contextualized images of the subject in different scenes, poses, and views.

![Dreambooth examples from the project's blog](https://dreambooth.github.io/DreamBooth_files/teaser_static.jpg)
<small>Dreambooth examples from the <a href="https://dreambooth.github.io">project's blog.</a></small>

This guide will show you how to finetune DreamBooth with the [`CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4) model for various GPU sizes, and with Flax. All the training scripts for DreamBooth used in this guide can be found [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/dreambooth) if you're interested in digging deeper and seeing how things work.

Before running the scripts, make sure you install the library's training dependencies. We also recommend installing 🧨 Diffusers from the `main` GitHub branch:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
pip install -U -r diffusers/examples/dreambooth/requirements.txt
```

xFormers is not part of the training requirements, but we recommend you [install](../optimization/xformers) it if you can because it could make your training faster and less memory intensive.

After all the dependencies have been set up, initialize a [🤗 Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

To setup a default 🤗 Accelerate environment without choosing any configurations:

```bash
accelerate config default
```

Or if your environment doesn't support an interactive shell like a notebook, you can use:

```py
from accelerate.utils import write_basic_config

write_basic_config()
```

## Finetuning

<Tip warning={true}>

DreamBooth finetuning is very sensitive to hyperparameters and easy to overfit. We recommend you take a look at our [in-depth analysis](https://huggingface.co/blog/dreambooth) with recommended settings for different subjects to help you choose the appropriate hyperparameters.

</Tip>

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
Let's try DreamBooth with a [few images of a dog](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BO_dyz-p65qhBRRMRA4TbZ8qW4rB99JZ); download and save them to a directory and then set the `INSTANCE_DIR` environment variable to that path:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"
```

Then you can launch the training script (you can find the full training script [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/train_dreambooth.py)) with the following command:

```bash
accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```
</pt>
<jax>
If you have access to TPUs or want to train even faster, you can try out the [Flax training script](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/train_dreambooth_flax.py). The Flax training script doesn't support gradient checkpointing or gradient accumulation, so you'll need a GPU with at least 30GB of memory.

Before running the script, make sure you have the requirements installed:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

Now you can launch the training script with the following command:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning with prior-preserving loss

Prior preservation is used to avoid overfitting and language-drift (check out the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) to learn more if you're interested). For prior preservation, you use other images of the same class as part of the training process. The nice thing is that you can generate those images using the Stable Diffusion model itself! The training script will save the generated images to a local path you specify.

The authors recommend generating `num_epochs * num_samples` images for prior preservation. In most cases, 200-300 images work well.

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</pt>
<jax>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning the text encoder and UNet

The script also allows you to finetune the `text_encoder` along with the `unet`. In our experiments (check out the [Training Stable Diffusion with DreamBooth using 🧨 Diffusers](https://huggingface.co/blog/dreambooth) post for more details), this yields much better results, especially when generating images of faces.

<Tip warning={true}>

Training the text encoder requires additional memory and it won't fit on a 16GB GPU. You'll need at least 24GB VRAM to use this option.

</Tip>

Pass the `--train_text_encoder` argument to the training script to enable finetuning the `text_encoder` and `unet`:

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --use_8bit_adam
  --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</pt>
<jax>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning with LoRA

You can also use Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models (LoRA), a fine-tuning technique for accelerating training large models, on DreamBooth. For more details, take a look at the [LoRA training](./lora#dreambooth) guide.

## Saving checkpoints while training

It's easy to overfit while training with Dreambooth, so sometimes it's useful to save regular checkpoints during the training process. One of the intermediate checkpoints might actually work better than the final model! Pass the following argument to the training script to enable saving checkpoints:

```bash
  --checkpointing_steps=500
```

This saves the full training state in subfolders of your `output_dir`. Subfolder names begin with the prefix `checkpoint-`, followed by the number of steps performed so far; for example, `checkpoint-1500` would be a checkpoint saved after 1500 training steps.

### Resume training from a saved checkpoint

If you want to resume training from any of the saved checkpoints, you can pass the argument `--resume_from_checkpoint` to the script and specify the name of the checkpoint you want to use. You can also use the special string `"latest"` to resume from the last saved checkpoint (the one with the largest number of steps). For example, the following would resume training from the checkpoint saved after 1500 steps:

```bash
  --resume_from_checkpoint="checkpoint-1500"
```

This is a good opportunity to tweak some of your hyperparameters if you wish.

### Inference from a saved checkpoint

Saved checkpoints are stored in a format suitable for resuming training. They not only include the model weights, but also the state of the optimizer, data loaders, and learning rate.

If you have **`"accelerate>=0.16.0"`** installed, use the following code to run 
inference from an intermediate checkpoint.

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, UNet2DConditionModel
from transformers import CLIPTextModel
import torch

# Load the pipeline with the same arguments (model, revision) that were used for training
model_id = "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"

unet = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100/unet")

# if you have trained with `--args.train_text_encoder` make sure to also load the text encoder
text_encoder = CLIPTextModel.from_pretrained("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100/text_encoder")

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, unet=unet, text_encoder=text_encoder, dtype=torch.float16)
pipeline.to("cuda")

# Perform inference, or save, or push to the hub
pipeline.save_pretrained("dreambooth-pipeline")
```

If you have **`"accelerate<0.16.0"`** installed, you need to convert it to an inference pipeline first:

```python
from accelerate import Accelerator
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

# Load the pipeline with the same arguments (model, revision) that were used for training
model_id = "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id)

accelerator = Accelerator()

# Use text_encoder if `--train_text_encoder` was used for the initial training
unet, text_encoder = accelerator.prepare(pipeline.unet, pipeline.text_encoder)

# Restore state from a checkpoint path. You have to use the absolute path here.
accelerator.load_state("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100")

# Rebuild the pipeline with the unwrapped models (assignment to .unet and .text_encoder should work too)
pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    model_id,
    unet=accelerator.unwrap_model(unet),
    text_encoder=accelerator.unwrap_model(text_encoder),
)

# Perform inference, or save, or push to the hub
pipeline.save_pretrained("dreambooth-pipeline")
```

## Optimizations for different GPU sizes

Depending on your hardware, there are a few different ways to optimize DreamBooth on GPUs from 16GB to just 8GB! 

### xFormers

[xFormers](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers) is a toolbox for optimizing Transformers, and it includes a [memory-efficient attention](https://facebookresearch.github.io/xformers/components/ops.html#module-xformers.ops) mechanism that is used in 🧨 Diffusers. You'll need to [install xFormers](./optimization/xformers) and then add the following argument to your training script:

```bash
  --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention
```

xFormers is not available in Flax.

### Set gradients to none

Another way you can lower your memory footprint is to [set the gradients](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.optim.Optimizer.zero_grad.html) to `None` instead of zero. However, this may change certain behaviors, so if you run into any issues, try removing this argument. Add the following argument to your training script to set the gradients to `None`:

```bash
  --set_grads_to_none
```

### 16GB GPU

With the help of gradient checkpointing and [bitsandbytes](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes) 8-bit optimizer, it's possible to train DreamBooth on a 16GB GPU. Make sure you have bitsandbytes installed:

```bash
pip install bitsandbytes
```

Then pass the `--use_8bit_adam` option to the training script:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=2 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### 12GB GPU

To run DreamBooth on a 12GB GPU, you'll need to enable gradient checkpointing, the 8-bit optimizer, xFormers, and set the gradients to `None`: 

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
  --set_grads_to_none \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### 8 GB GPU

For 8GB GPUs, you'll need the help of [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) to offload some
tensors from the VRAM to either the CPU or NVME, enabling training with less GPU memory.

Run the following command to configure your 🤗 Accelerate environment:

```bash
accelerate config
```

During configuration, confirm that you want to use DeepSpeed. Now it's possible to train on under 8GB VRAM by combining DeepSpeed stage 2, fp16 mixed precision, and offloading the model parameters and the optimizer state to the CPU. The drawback is that this requires more system RAM, about 25 GB. See [the DeepSpeed documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more configuration options.

You should also change the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's optimized version of Adam
[`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam`](https://deepspeed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/optimizers.html#adam-cpu) for a substantial speedup. Enabling `DeepSpeedCPUAdam` requires your system's CUDA toolchain version to be the same as the one installed with PyTorch. 

8-bit optimizers don't seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

Launch training with the following command:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --sample_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800 \
  --mixed_precision=fp16
```

## Inference

Once you have trained a model, specify the path to where the model is saved, and use it for inference in the [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]. Make sure your prompts include the special `identifier` used during training (`sks` in the previous examples).

If you have **`"accelerate>=0.16.0"`** installed, you can use the following code to run 
inference from an intermediate checkpoint:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

model_id = "path_to_saved_model"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16).to("cuda")

prompt = "A photo of sks dog in a bucket"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=50, guidance_scale=7.5).images[0]

image.save("dog-bucket.png")
```

You may also run inference from any of the [saved training checkpoints](#inference-from-a-saved-checkpoint).

Commit message:

use dog dataset from hub.

docs/source/en/training/dreambooth.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# DreamBooth

[[open-in-colab]]

[DreamBooth](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) is a method to personalize text-to-image models like Stable Diffusion given just a few (3-5) images of a subject. It allows the model to generate contextualized images of the subject in different scenes, poses, and views.

![Dreambooth examples from the project's blog](https://dreambooth.github.io/DreamBooth_files/teaser_static.jpg)
<small>Dreambooth examples from the <a href="https://dreambooth.github.io">project's blog.</a></small>

This guide will show you how to finetune DreamBooth with the [`CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4) model for various GPU sizes, and with Flax. All the training scripts for DreamBooth used in this guide can be found [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/dreambooth) if you're interested in digging deeper and seeing how things work.

Before running the scripts, make sure you install the library's training dependencies. We also recommend installing 🧨 Diffusers from the `main` GitHub branch:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
pip install -U -r diffusers/examples/dreambooth/requirements.txt
```

xFormers is not part of the training requirements, but we recommend you [install](../optimization/xformers) it if you can because it could make your training faster and less memory intensive.

After all the dependencies have been set up, initialize a [🤗 Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

To setup a default 🤗 Accelerate environment without choosing any configurations:

```bash
accelerate config default
```

Or if your environment doesn't support an interactive shell like a notebook, you can use:

```py
from accelerate.utils import write_basic_config

write_basic_config()
```

## Finetuning

<Tip warning={true}>

DreamBooth finetuning is very sensitive to hyperparameters and easy to overfit. We recommend you take a look at our [in-depth analysis](https://huggingface.co/blog/dreambooth) with recommended settings for different subjects to help you choose the appropriate hyperparameters.

</Tip>

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
Let's try DreamBooth with a
[few images of a dog](https://huggingface.co/datasets/diffusers/dog-example);
download and save them to a directory and then set the `INSTANCE_DIR` environment variable to that path:

```python 
local_dir = "./path_to_training_images"
snapshot_download(
    "diffusers/dog-example",
    local_dir=local_dir, repo_type="dataset",
    ignore_patterns=".gitattributes",
)
```

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"
```

Then you can launch the training script (you can find the full training script [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/train_dreambooth.py)) with the following command:

```bash
accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```
</pt>
<jax>
If you have access to TPUs or want to train even faster, you can try out the [Flax training script](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/train_dreambooth_flax.py). The Flax training script doesn't support gradient checkpointing or gradient accumulation, so you'll need a GPU with at least 30GB of memory.

Before running the script, make sure you have the requirements installed:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

Now you can launch the training script with the following command:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning with prior-preserving loss

Prior preservation is used to avoid overfitting and language-drift (check out the [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) to learn more if you're interested). For prior preservation, you use other images of the same class as part of the training process. The nice thing is that you can generate those images using the Stable Diffusion model itself! The training script will save the generated images to a local path you specify.

The authors recommend generating `num_epochs * num_samples` images for prior preservation. In most cases, 200-300 images work well.

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</pt>
<jax>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning the text encoder and UNet

The script also allows you to finetune the `text_encoder` along with the `unet`. In our experiments (check out the [Training Stable Diffusion with DreamBooth using 🧨 Diffusers](https://huggingface.co/blog/dreambooth) post for more details), this yields much better results, especially when generating images of faces.

<Tip warning={true}>

Training the text encoder requires additional memory and it won't fit on a 16GB GPU. You'll need at least 24GB VRAM to use this option.

</Tip>

Pass the `--train_text_encoder` argument to the training script to enable finetuning the `text_encoder` and `unet`:

<frameworkcontent>
<pt>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --use_8bit_adam
  --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</pt>
<jax>
```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
</jax>
</frameworkcontent>

## Finetuning with LoRA

You can also use Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models (LoRA), a fine-tuning technique for accelerating training large models, on DreamBooth. For more details, take a look at the [LoRA training](./lora#dreambooth) guide.

## Saving checkpoints while training

It's easy to overfit while training with Dreambooth, so sometimes it's useful to save regular checkpoints during the training process. One of the intermediate checkpoints might actually work better than the final model! Pass the following argument to the training script to enable saving checkpoints:

```bash
  --checkpointing_steps=500
```

This saves the full training state in subfolders of your `output_dir`. Subfolder names begin with the prefix `checkpoint-`, followed by the number of steps performed so far; for example, `checkpoint-1500` would be a checkpoint saved after 1500 training steps.

### Resume training from a saved checkpoint

If you want to resume training from any of the saved checkpoints, you can pass the argument `--resume_from_checkpoint` to the script and specify the name of the checkpoint you want to use. You can also use the special string `"latest"` to resume from the last saved checkpoint (the one with the largest number of steps). For example, the following would resume training from the checkpoint saved after 1500 steps:

```bash
  --resume_from_checkpoint="checkpoint-1500"
```

This is a good opportunity to tweak some of your hyperparameters if you wish.

### Inference from a saved checkpoint

Saved checkpoints are stored in a format suitable for resuming training. They not only include the model weights, but also the state of the optimizer, data loaders, and learning rate.

If you have **`"accelerate>=0.16.0"`** installed, use the following code to run 
inference from an intermediate checkpoint.

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, UNet2DConditionModel
from transformers import CLIPTextModel
import torch

# Load the pipeline with the same arguments (model, revision) that were used for training
model_id = "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"

unet = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100/unet")

# if you have trained with `--args.train_text_encoder` make sure to also load the text encoder
text_encoder = CLIPTextModel.from_pretrained("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100/text_encoder")

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, unet=unet, text_encoder=text_encoder, dtype=torch.float16)
pipeline.to("cuda")

# Perform inference, or save, or push to the hub
pipeline.save_pretrained("dreambooth-pipeline")
```

If you have **`"accelerate<0.16.0"`** installed, you need to convert it to an inference pipeline first:

```python
from accelerate import Accelerator
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

# Load the pipeline with the same arguments (model, revision) that were used for training
model_id = "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id)

accelerator = Accelerator()

# Use text_encoder if `--train_text_encoder` was used for the initial training
unet, text_encoder = accelerator.prepare(pipeline.unet, pipeline.text_encoder)

# Restore state from a checkpoint path. You have to use the absolute path here.
accelerator.load_state("/sddata/dreambooth/daruma-v2-1/checkpoint-100")

# Rebuild the pipeline with the unwrapped models (assignment to .unet and .text_encoder should work too)
pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    model_id,
    unet=accelerator.unwrap_model(unet),
    text_encoder=accelerator.unwrap_model(text_encoder),
)

# Perform inference, or save, or push to the hub
pipeline.save_pretrained("dreambooth-pipeline")
```

## Optimizations for different GPU sizes

Depending on your hardware, there are a few different ways to optimize DreamBooth on GPUs from 16GB to just 8GB! 

### xFormers

[xFormers](https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers) is a toolbox for optimizing Transformers, and it includes a [memory-efficient attention](https://facebookresearch.github.io/xformers/components/ops.html#module-xformers.ops) mechanism that is used in 🧨 Diffusers. You'll need to [install xFormers](./optimization/xformers) and then add the following argument to your training script:

```bash
  --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention
```

xFormers is not available in Flax.

### Set gradients to none

Another way you can lower your memory footprint is to [set the gradients](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.optim.Optimizer.zero_grad.html) to `None` instead of zero. However, this may change certain behaviors, so if you run into any issues, try removing this argument. Add the following argument to your training script to set the gradients to `None`:

```bash
  --set_grads_to_none
```

### 16GB GPU

With the help of gradient checkpointing and [bitsandbytes](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes) 8-bit optimizer, it's possible to train DreamBooth on a 16GB GPU. Make sure you have bitsandbytes installed:

```bash
pip install bitsandbytes
```

Then pass the `--use_8bit_adam` option to the training script:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=2 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### 12GB GPU

To run DreamBooth on a 12GB GPU, you'll need to enable gradient checkpointing, the 8-bit optimizer, xFormers, and set the gradients to `None`: 

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention \
  --set_grads_to_none \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### 8 GB GPU

For 8GB GPUs, you'll need the help of [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) to offload some
tensors from the VRAM to either the CPU or NVME, enabling training with less GPU memory.

Run the following command to configure your 🤗 Accelerate environment:

```bash
accelerate config
```

During configuration, confirm that you want to use DeepSpeed. Now it's possible to train on under 8GB VRAM by combining DeepSpeed stage 2, fp16 mixed precision, and offloading the model parameters and the optimizer state to the CPU. The drawback is that this requires more system RAM, about 25 GB. See [the DeepSpeed documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more configuration options.

You should also change the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's optimized version of Adam
[`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam`](https://deepspeed.readthedocs.io/en/latest/optimizers.html#adam-cpu) for a substantial speedup. Enabling `DeepSpeedCPUAdam` requires your system's CUDA toolchain version to be the same as the one installed with PyTorch. 

8-bit optimizers don't seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

Launch training with the following command:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path_to_training_images"
export CLASS_DIR="path_to_class_images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path_to_saved_model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --sample_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800 \
  --mixed_precision=fp16
```

## Inference

Once you have trained a model, specify the path to where the model is saved, and use it for inference in the [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]. Make sure your prompts include the special `identifier` used during training (`sks` in the previous examples).

If you have **`"accelerate>=0.16.0"`** installed, you can use the following code to run 
inference from an intermediate checkpoint:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline
import torch

model_id = "path_to_saved_model"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16).to("cuda")

prompt = "A photo of sks dog in a bucket"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=50, guidance_scale=7.5).images[0]

image.save("dog-bucket.png")
```

You may also run inference from any of the [saved training checkpoints](#inference-from-a-saved-checkpoint).
