examples/research_projects/onnxruntime/textual_inversion/README.md, before:

## Textual Inversion fine-tuning example

[Textual inversion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.01618) is a method to personalize text2image models like stable diffusion on your own images using just 3-5 examples.
The `textual_inversion.py` script shows how to implement the training procedure and adapt it for stable diffusion.

## Running on Colab 

Colab for training 
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/sd_textual_inversion_training.ipynb)

Colab for inference
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/stable_conceptualizer_inference.ipynb)

## Running locally with PyTorch
### Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

**Important**

To make sure you can successfully run the latest versions of the example scripts, we highly recommend **installing from source** and keeping the install up to date as we update the example scripts frequently and install some example-specific requirements. To do this, execute the following steps in a new virtual environment:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install .
```

Then cd in the example folder  and run
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```


### Cat toy example

You need to accept the model license before downloading or using the weights. In this example we'll use model version `v1-5`, so you'll need to visit [its card](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5), read the license and tick the checkbox if you agree. 

You have to be a registered user in 🤗 Hugging Face Hub, and you'll also need to use an access token for the code to work. For more information on access tokens, please refer to [this section of the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens).

Run the following command to authenticate your token

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

If you have already cloned the repo, then you won't need to go through these steps. 

<br>

Now let's get our dataset.Download 3-4 images from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1fmJMs25nxS_rSNqS5hTcRdLem_YQXbq5) and save them in a directory. This will be our training data.

## Use ONNXRuntime to accelerate training
In order to leverage onnxruntime to accelerate training, please use textual_inversion.py

The command to train on custom data with onnxruntime:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export DATA_DIR="path-to-dir-containing-images"

accelerate launch textual_inversion.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --train_data_dir=$DATA_DIR \
  --learnable_property="object" \
  --placeholder_token="<cat-toy>" --initializer_token="toy" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
  --max_train_steps=3000 \
  --learning_rate=5.0e-04 --scale_lr \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --output_dir="textual_inversion_cat"
```

Please contact Prathik Rao (prathikr), Sunghoon Choi (hanbitmyths), Ashwini Khade (askhade), or Peng Wang (pengwa) on github with any questions.

Commit message:

update code to reflect latest changes as of May 30th (#3616)
* update code to reflect latest changes as of May 30th

* update text to image example

* reflect changes to textual inversion

* make style

* fix typo

* Revert unnecessary readme changes

---------

Co-authored-by: root <root@orttrainingdev8.d32nl1ml4oruzj4qz3bqlggovf.px.internal.cloudapp.net>
Co-authored-by: Prathik Rao <prathikrao@microsoft.com@orttrainingdev8.d32nl1ml4oruzj4qz3bqlggovf.px.internal.cloudapp.net>

examples/research_projects/onnxruntime/textual_inversion/README.md, after:

## Textual Inversion fine-tuning example

[Textual inversion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.01618) is a method to personalize text2image models like stable diffusion on your own images using just 3-5 examples.
The `textual_inversion.py` script shows how to implement the training procedure and adapt it for stable diffusion.

## Running on Colab 

Colab for training 
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/sd_textual_inversion_training.ipynb)

Colab for inference
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/stable_conceptualizer_inference.ipynb)

## Running locally with PyTorch
### Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

**Important**

To make sure you can successfully run the latest versions of the example scripts, we highly recommend **installing from source** and keeping the install up to date as we update the example scripts frequently and install some example-specific requirements. To do this, execute the following steps in a new virtual environment:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
cd diffusers
pip install .
```

Then cd in the example folder  and run
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```


### Cat toy example

You need to accept the model license before downloading or using the weights. In this example we'll use model version `v1-5`, so you'll need to visit [its card](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5), read the license and tick the checkbox if you agree. 

You have to be a registered user in 🤗 Hugging Face Hub, and you'll also need to use an access token for the code to work. For more information on access tokens, please refer to [this section of the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens).

Run the following command to authenticate your token

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

If you have already cloned the repo, then you won't need to go through these steps. 

<br>

Now let's get our dataset. For this example we will use some cat images: https://huggingface.co/datasets/diffusers/cat_toy_example .

Let's first download it locally:

```py
from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download

local_dir = "./cat"
snapshot_download("diffusers/cat_toy_example", local_dir=local_dir, repo_type="dataset", ignore_patterns=".gitattributes")
```

This will be our training data.
Now we can launch the training using

## Use ONNXRuntime to accelerate training
In order to leverage onnxruntime to accelerate training, please use textual_inversion.py

The command to train on custom data with onnxruntime:

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
export DATA_DIR="path-to-dir-containing-images"

accelerate launch textual_inversion.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --train_data_dir=$DATA_DIR \
  --learnable_property="object" \
  --placeholder_token="<cat-toy>" --initializer_token="toy" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=4 \
  --max_train_steps=3000 \
  --learning_rate=5.0e-04 --scale_lr \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --output_dir="textual_inversion_cat"
```

Please contact Prathik Rao (prathikr), Sunghoon Choi (hanbitmyths), Ashwini Khade (askhade), or Peng Wang (pengwa) on github with any questions.
