docs/source/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/control_net.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text-to-Image Generation with ControlNet guidance

## StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline

ControlNet by [@lllyasviel](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel) is a neural network structure to control diffusion models by adding extra conditions.

It has integration with Stable Diffusion and 8 pre-trained models that conditions the models on different attributes 
(such as edge detection, scribbles, depth maps, semantic segmentations and more)

The original codebase/paper can be found here: 
- [lllyasviel/ControlNet](https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet)
- [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543)


## Available converted checkpoints

- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using canny edge detection:* [takuma104/control_sd15_canny](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_canny)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using Midas depth estimation:* [takuma104/control_sd15_depth](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_depth)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using HED edge detection (soft edge):* [takuma104/control_sd15_hed](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_hed)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using M-LSD line detection:* [takuma104/control_sd15_mlsd](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_mlsd)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using normal map:* [takuma104/control_sd15_normal](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_normal)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using OpenPose pose detection:* [takuma104/control_sd15_openpose](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_openpose)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using human scribbles:* [takuma104/control_sd15_scribble](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_scribble)
- *ControlNet+SD1.5 using semantic segmentation:* [takuma104/control_sd15_seg](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_seg)

## Resources

- [Colab Notebook Example](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1AiR7Q-sBqO88NCyswpfiuwXZc7DfMyKA?usp=sharing)
- [controlnet_hinter](https://github.com/takuma104/controlnet_hinter): Image Preprocess Library for ControlNet

## Usage example

- Basic Example (Canny Edge)
```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image

# Canny edged image for control
canny_edged_image = load_image("https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/vermeer_canny_edged.png")
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained("takuma104/control_sd15_canny").to("cuda")
image = pipe(prompt="best quality, extremely detailed", image=canny_edged_image).images[0]
image.save("generated.png")
```

- Using SD1.x variant model to control
```py
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline, AutoencoderKL, UNet2DConditionModel
from diffusers.utils import load_image

# Canny edged image for control
canny_edged_image = load_image("https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/vermeer_canny_edged.png")

base_model_id = "prompthero/openjourney"  # an example: openjourney model
vae = AutoencoderKL.from_pretrained(base_model_id, subfolder="vae").to("cuda")
unet = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained(base_model_id, subfolder="unet").to("cuda")

pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained("takuma104/control_sd15_canny", unet=unet, vae=vae).to("cuda")
image = pipe(prompt="best quality, extremely detailed", image=canny_edged_image, width=512, height=512).images[0]
image.save("generated.png")
```

[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing
	- enable_vae_slicing
	- disable_vae_slicing
	- enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention
	- disable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention

Commit message:

Add control image descriptions for each checkpoint

docs/source/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/control_net.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text-to-Image Generation with ControlNet guidance

## StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline

ControlNet by [@lllyasviel](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel) is a neural network structure to control diffusion models by adding extra conditions.

It has integration with Stable Diffusion and 8 pre-trained models that conditions the models on different attributes 
(such as edge detection, scribbles, depth maps, semantic segmentations and more)

The original codebase/paper can be found here: 
- [Code](https://github.com/lllyasviel/ControlNet)
- [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543)


## Available checkpoints

ControlNet requires a *control image* in addition to the text-to-image *prompt*. 
Each pretrained model is trained using a different method. 
For this reason, the image content passed to the `image` argument of `pipe()` is different. 
See the overview and image examples.

All checkpoints are converted from [lllyasviel/ControlNet](https://huggingface.co/lllyasviel/ControlNet).

### ControlNet + SD1.5

| Model Name | Control Image Overview| Control Image Example
|---|---|---|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_canny](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_canny)<br/> *Trained with canny edge detection* | A monochrome image with white edges on a black background.  | <a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_bird_canny.png"><img width="64" style="margin:0;padding:0;" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_bird_canny.png"/></a> |
|[takuma104/control_sd15_depth](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_depth)<br/> *Trained with Midas depth estimation*  |A grayscale image with black representing deep areas and white representing shallow areas.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_vermeer_depth.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_vermeer_depth.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_hed](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_hed)<br/> *Trained with HED edge detection (soft edge)*  |A monochrome image with white soft edges on a black background.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_bird_hed.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_bird_hed.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_mlsd](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_mlsd)<br/> *Trained with M-LSD line detection*  |A monochrome image composed only of white straight lines on a black background.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_room_mlsd.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_room_mlsd.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_normal](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_normal)<br/> *Trained with normal map*  |A [normal mapped](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_mapping) image.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_human_normal.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_human_normal.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_openpose](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_openpose)<br/> *Trained with OpenPose bone image*  |A [OpenPose bone](https://github.com/CMU-Perceptual-Computing-Lab/openpose) image.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_human_openpose.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_human_openpose.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_scribble](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_scribble)<br/> *Trained with human scribbles*  |A hand-drawn monochrome image with white outlines on a black background.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_vermeer_scribble.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_vermeer_scribble.png"/></a>|
|[takuma104/control_sd15_seg](https://huggingface.co/takuma104/control_sd15_seg)<br/>*Trained with semantic segmentation*  |An [ADE20K](https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/datasets/ADE20K/)'s segmentation protocol image.|<a href="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/blob/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_room_seg.png"><img width="64" src="https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/gen_compare/control_images/converted/control_room_seg.png"/></a>|


## Resources

- [Colab Notebook Example](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1AiR7Q-sBqO88NCyswpfiuwXZc7DfMyKA?usp=sharing)
- [controlnet_hinter](https://github.com/takuma104/controlnet_hinter): Image Preprocess Library for ControlNet

## Usage example

- Basic Example (Canny Edge)
```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image

# Canny edged image for control
canny_edged_image = load_image("https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/vermeer_canny_edged.png")
pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained("takuma104/control_sd15_canny").to("cuda")
image = pipe(prompt="best quality, extremely detailed", image=canny_edged_image).images[0]
image.save("generated.png")
```

- Using SD1.x variant model to control
```py
from diffusers import StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline, AutoencoderKL, UNet2DConditionModel
from diffusers.utils import load_image

# Canny edged image for control
canny_edged_image = load_image("https://huggingface.co/takuma104/controlnet_dev/resolve/main/vermeer_canny_edged.png")

base_model_id = "prompthero/openjourney"  # an example: openjourney model
vae = AutoencoderKL.from_pretrained(base_model_id, subfolder="vae").to("cuda")
unet = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained(base_model_id, subfolder="unet").to("cuda")

pipe = StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained("takuma104/control_sd15_canny", unet=unet, vae=vae).to("cuda")
image = pipe(prompt="best quality, extremely detailed", image=canny_edged_image, width=512, height=512).images[0]
image.save("generated.png")
```

[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing
	- enable_vae_slicing
	- disable_vae_slicing
	- enable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention
	- disable_xformers_memory_efficient_attention
